---
layout: post
title: Getting Started with Sonos
---

I have always been fond of music but didn't love the hassle of running wires and dealing with complicated audio setups that led to added clutter. Despite this, I always wanted to have the best sounding setup I could afford, and ultimately ended up receiving a wonderful Andrew Jones 5.1 setup that is a mainstay in my living room. Due to the hassle of running the wires, I ended up utilizing only the 3.1 portion of the setup which provided ample, rich sound for both my ChromeCast Audio and more importantly my record player. I was content with this setup for a long time, but always felt like something was missing.

Then the Sonos One was announced.

I had been in the home automation/assistant game for some time starting with the first Amazon Echo, and the Google Home shortly thereafter. With both devices, there was a piece that continued to pick away at me, and that was the audio quality was average to sub-par at best for both devices.

I had pored over the Sonos reviews throughout the past couple of years reading multiple sites who all basically fell into the "It is awesome, expensive, and sounds incredible" range. Other things that were often noted were the fantastic support as well as the frequent software updates pushed to the hardware. The Sonos One was supposed to be another great speaker from Sonos, but this time they were throwing in far-field microphone technology. This was going to be the first smart speaker from Sonos, who immediately vowed to keep up the quality that had already had expectations set by the rest of the brand. As the reviews came in the for the Sonos One, and they glowed. The Alexa integration wasn't perfect, but was more then serviceable and the sound quality was the best yet for any smart speaker. I was hooked and lucky enough to get my hands on one after launch.

_Of Note:  Google and Amazon both seem to be upping their game this year with the release of the Echo Plus and the Google Home Max, but I digress._

The Sonos One quickly replaced the Google Home on my kitchen counter, and quickly I became hooked into the Sonos ecosystem by the friendly interface for managing radio and my entire collection of streaming and offline music.

Shortly thereafter two Sonos Play:1s were added to the mix and set up as a stereo pairing. And finally I added a Sonos Connect to bring my records to my whole home with the awesome line out sharing capabilities built into the device.

Regarding the Sonos Connect, this was an extremely interesting device, but at its core it is a beefed up Chromecast Audio with additional capabilities such as Line In, and management through the Sonos app. Specifically what I liked about the Sonos Connect was the ability to easily change the audio source on my Sonos setup from the Line-in (Record Player) to the radio or any of the variety of music sources I subscribe to (Tidal, Google Play Music, Spotify, TuneIn, etc...). And that is really where Sonos shines, in the accompanying software/app department. The app is well made, easy to use, and allows cross platform searching through all the services that are linked. The app can also allow you to create groups of speakers/connect devices and easily manipulate what is playing on each speaker.

Oh, and did I mention the entire setup is wireless for Sonos? Fantastic.

I'm officially hooked onto the Sonos ecosystem, and anxious to get my hands on some more expensive (but amazing) speakers to add into the mix.

## Update ##  
For Christmas I received the excellent Sonos Playbar, and I went about the complete reshaping of my home theater setup. I moved the Play:1s to be the rear surround speakers and replaced my Energy 5.1 setup with an all Sonos configuration. This also meant removing my recently added Denon AVR-S710W receiver as it is incapable of being a simple passthrough. As I discovered, the Playbar only has an Optical input and I needed to now have my devices run through the television (or at least have the audio output be through the television).

Here's a quick diagram to show my setup:
<div class="mxgraph" style="max-width:100%;border:1px solid transparent;" data-mxgraph="{&quot;highlight&quot;:&quot;#0000ff&quot;,&quot;nav&quot;:true,&quot;resize&quot;:true,&quot;toolbar&quot;:&quot;zoom layers lightbox&quot;,&quot;edit&quot;:&quot;_blank&quot;,&quot;xml&quot;:&quot;&lt;mxfile userAgent=\&quot;Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64; rv:59.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/59.0\&quot; version=\&quot;7.9.5\&quot; editor=\&quot;www.draw.io\&quot; type=\&quot;github\&quot;&gt;&lt;diagram id=\&quot;ef862319-6f78-2b95-020f-6e229a1446fc\&quot; name=\&quot;Page-1\&quot;&gt;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&lt;/diagram&gt;&lt;/mxfile&gt;&quot;}"></div>
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://www.draw.io/js/viewer.min.js"></script>
